Blockchain nodes (#614)
ton-community/ton-docs: docs/participate/run-nodes/full-node.mdx

Reviewer: Let's add a section about node arguments. You can check nodes arguments with `installer status` commands and set them with `installer set_node_argument <arg_name> <arg_value>`. Also let's say about `--state-ttl` and `--archive-ttl` args - first one is ttl of blockchain states that node keep and second one is ttl of blocks node stores. And their default values

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Full Node

:::caution [MyTonCtrl](/participate/run-nodes/mytonctrl) requires terminal restarting after some operations
If you get an error without visible reason, ***like [Validator is not settings](/participate/run-nodes/nodes-troubleshooting#validator-console-is-not-settings) even from owner***, try to restart terminal
:::

## OS requirements

We highly recommend installing MyTonCtrl using the supported operating systems:
* Ubuntu 20.04
* Ubuntu 22.04
* Debian 11

## Hardware requirements

:::caution Node usage on personal local machine
You shouldn't run any type of node on your personal local machine for long, even if it is satisfy the requirements. Nodes actively use disks and can damage them fast.

> :::

Author: Reactive Fox asked to add a caution to the documentation, indicating that developers can run it for tests.

For example, I wanted to start it on a Mac (which is known for high disk usage even when it isn't necessary)

sudo usermod -aG sudo <username>
```

3. Log into the new user

```bash
su - username
```

> 

Reviewer: Not sure but I think you need to log in to the server with new user and not just switch it, since mytonctrl uses `logname` instead of `whoami` if parent is root: https://github.com/ton-blockchain/mytonctrl/blob/966f1a71030be1f0f86aeb578f0eaa0f4826f3ea/scripts/install.sh#L103.
Can you double check it?

* `-d` - **mytonctrl** will download a [dump](https://dump.ton.org/) of the latest blockchain state.
This will reduce synchronization time by several times.
* `-c <path>` - If you want to use not public liteservers for synchronization. _(not required)_
* `-i` - Ignore minimum requirements, use it only if you want to check compilation process without real node usage.

> There are two installation modes: lite and full. They both compile and install TON components. However the lite version does not configure or run the node/validator.

Author: Did not find any usage of validator flag, only three uses of lightserver -- affects ttl, mode enable function (have searched from mytoninstaller.py, mytonctrl2_dev branch)

Am I missing something or it is just not ready?

> There are two installation modes: lite and full. They both compile and install TON components. However the lite version does not configure or run the node/validator.

Reviewer: @Full-Hat currently `validator` flag is just default installation with `validator` mode enabled, but it can be changed in future. it's important that people install mtc in the mode in which they will use it, so we need to emphasize this point

The following statuses should be displayed:

* **mytoncore status**: Should be in green.
* **local validator status**: Should also be in green.

> * **local validator out of sync**: Initially, a large number is displayed. As soon as the newly created validator connects with other validators, the number will be around 250k. As synchronization progresses, this number decreases. When it falls below 20, the validator is synchronized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **local validator out of sync**: Initially, a `n/a` string is displayed. As soon as the newly created validator connects with other validators, the number will be around 250k. As synchronization progresses, this number decreases. When it falls below 20, the validator is synchronized.
```

Wait until `Local validator out of sync` becomes less than 20 seconds.

### Uninstall mytonctrl

Download script and run it:

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ton-blockchain/mytonctrl/master/scripts/uninstall.sh

> sudo bash uninstall

Reviewer: Why not `sudo bash /usr/src/mytonctrl/uninstall.sh`?

Author: 'cause there is no information that it downloads script too :)
